# Individual Capstone Assessment
My senior design project is titled "From Security Policies to Formal Specifications." A security policy describes the requirements, regulations, and standards that an organization should meet to protect its assets. These policies enable technical and social protocols to be implemented accordingly. Security policies are often written in natural language (e.g. English), which can cause ambiguity and vagueness. This, in turn, leads to challenges of checking whether the intended properties are met by system design and implementation. This research project will investigate the use of natural language processing (NLP) to mine formal specifications to allow security policies to be reasoned about automatically. 

The CS curriculum at the University of Cincinnati has prepared me well to take on a project of this scope. The classes that provided me with the knowledge I need to succeed in completing this project are Technical and Scientific Writing (ENGL 4092), Software Engineering (EECE 3093C), and Requirements Engineering (CS 5127). These are in order of increasing importance. Technical and Scientific writing taught me how to approach technical papers. Software Engineering taught me how to work with a team to complete a software project. Finally, Requirements Engineering taught me how to understand the requirements outlined in technical documents and provided base knowledge on Natural Language Processing (NLP), which we will be using in our capstone project.  

Outside of the CS curriculum, I learned many important skills during my co-op rotations. I spent all of my rotations at a local company called Flooid, which deals in retail technology. My first rotation was spent working as a Quality Analyst, while my final two rotations were spent as a Software Developer. I was able to learn how to effectively communicate, manage my time to meet deadlines, and work proficiently on a team. I also learned many technical skills, such as Agile methodology, Java, SQL, and JIRA, to name a few. The most important skill that I'll be applying to this capstone project is the prioritization of my tasks so that this project will be completed by the deadline. Being able to maintain team cohesion will also be crucial.  

My motivation for this project stems from two reasons. First, I respect Professor Niu as an instructor and have learned a lot in the classes I have taken with him. I knew that I wanted him to be my faculty advisor for this project. Second, when I took Professor Niu's course on Requirements Engineering, we had an assignment on Natural Language Processing (NLP). I had no prior experience with this, but it was something that caught my interest. I wanted to pursue it further for my Senior Capstone, which is why I chose it as my topic.

The preliminary approach that my team is taking to designing a solution is to first do extensive research on what has already been implemented. Rather than design a novel solution, we are striving to improve and make changes to existing solutions. This will allow us to avoid overlap with other researchers and requirements engineers. The expected results of this project is to have a solution that is able to effectively take a technical document as input and pulling out the requirements in a way that reduces vagueness and ambiguity. Our team is still working with Professor Niu on creating an evaluation tool. This tool will be used to confirm whether our implementation is successful.